#MicroServices - Scaler Master Class

Types of Archeture
1) Monolithic 2) Microservie

Monolithic - A traditional model of a software program, which is built as a unified unit that is self-contained and independent from other applications.

let's see pros and cons of Monolithic
Monolithic Pros - Very Easy to manage, Easy deployment, One code base.
Monolithic Cons - Single Point of Failure, If load increase, waiting time increases. you always need of backup.

Every product start with monolithic because of low budget.

Scaling - easily increase or decrease your computing resources as needed
There are two main types of scaling in the cloud: vertical scaling and horizontal scaling.

Vertical Scaling:
Vertical scaling involves increasing the capacity of a single virtual machine (VM) or server by adding more resources such as CPU, RAM, or storage

Horizontal Scaling:
Horizontal scaling involves adding more instances of a resource, such as virtual machines or containers, to distribute the load

 Flipkart Analogy:
When it started in 2008 it might getting 10 Orders per day.
and 2 years later in 2010 - 1000 Orders per day

Now 1 normal server is not enough so replaced with 1 super computer(server) (- rich in resources).
this is nothing but vertical scaling. and it has it's limitation it's not infinite scalable.
we can not always bring bigger compter.

Now instead of upgrading what flipkart brought 20 new compuers(servers).
Now same code running on 20 instances.

Now we can not hard 20 IP address in frontend. (20 is also not fixed number it would be always changing).
so to solve this issue we have something called as Load Balanncer.

Load Balancer - the device or service that sits between the user and the server group and acts as an invisible facilitator, ensuring that all resource servers are used equally.

then load balncer becomes SPOF (Single Point of failure)
load balancer also has many replicas.

and how it works ? Round Robin most of the time. if req distribution algo is heavy then itself becomes problem.
load balancer keeps a check server if it is dead it remove from list so always keeps light algo.

puting everything (codebase) in each server is not always good - we don't get optionality of selecting scaling.
eg. take flipkart example. 
product display service will require more computing power than payment. (because not all products are viewed are purchased).

so cons of this approach -->
--> No Selective scaling
--> No independence of technology
--> if size is more new program find difficult to understand 
--> Build and runtime is will also slow.
--> developer productivity reduce.

pros --> Easy to handle
     --> Module to Module call is just method call (In case of Micro service N/w Comes in betwween)
  
So monolothic are lower latency and can save lot of money. (No Network calls).
Speed is not always concerns of every application some prefered security over it such as banks.

Microservices - A microservices architecture is a type of application architecture where the application is developed as a collection of services.
It provides the framework to develop, deploy, and maintain microservices architecture diagrams and services independently.

word Microservices just came into picture few years back but companies using this more than 15 years ago.

pros - selective scaling possible. 
Now we can have 5 service running for product and 2 service for payment.
And we have independence 
